
								INSURANCE					
							
1>Insured– The person(s) covered by the insurance policy.

2>Premiums – The monthly or annual amount that you must pay in order to have the insurance coverage.

3>Face Amount– The dollar amount that the insurance policy would pay out upon the death of the Insured.

4>Primary Beneficary– The person(s) designated to receive the proceeds of the life insurance policy upon the death of the Insured.

5>Contingent Beneficiary– The person(s) designated to receive the proceeds of the life insurance policy if the Primary Beneficiary is no longer living.

6>Term Life Coverage– The type of coverage that lasts for only a specified period of time (the “term”) and has a defined ending date. The face amount would be paid to 
the designated beneficiary if the Insured dies while the policy is in force.

7>Whole Life Coverage– The type of coverage that can last for as long as the Insured is alive, provided that all of the premiums are paid. This type of coverage usually keeps the same premium rate throughout the life of the policy.

8>Deductible– The annual amount of money that you must pay out of pocket for medical expenses before your insurance kicks in and starts to make payments.

9>Co-payment– A flat fee that you must pay toward the cost of medical visits, your insurance provider pays the remaining balance. For example, you could be responsible for a $10 co-pay for each visit to the doctor.

10>Coinsurance– The percentage that you must pay to share responsibility for your medical claims after you meet your annual deductible. For example, your insurance provider might pay 80% of your claim leaving you responsible for paying the remaining 20%.

11>Bodily Injury Coverage–---> The type of coverage that pays for medical expenses and/or funeral costs of other individuals injured, or killed, in an accident for which you are liable.

12>Medical Payments Coverage–---> The type of coverage that pays for medical and funeral expenses for anyone covered under your insurance policy in the event of an accident, regardless of fault.

13>Uninsured Motorist Coverage---> The type of coverage that pays for injuries, including death, which you and/or other occupants of your vehicle sustain as a result of a collision with an uninsured driver who is at fault.

14>Adjuster--->A claims or insurance adjuster is employed by or acts on behalf of an insurance company to examine, evaluate and settle insurance claims. The adjuster must determine the cause of loss, whether the loss is covered by the policy, the value of the loss and the amount of loss payable by the policy. 

15>Certificate of Insurance (COI)--->While some may confuse a COI with a Declaration Page because both list similar information, a COI also includes space for:

the name of the organization requesting a certificate, known as the Certificate Holder

the Certificate Holder’s conditions, exclusions or specific language required

16>Claim--->According to Investopedia, an insurance claim is a formal request to an insurance company for coverage or compensation for a covered loss or policy event. The process for filing a claim should be smooth and efficient. Infinity uses smart technology to make the process as easy on you as possible.

17>Declaration Page--->Often referred to as your "dec page," this is a one-page coverage summary that lists the insurance company name and address; name and address of policyholder; policy number and effective dates: start and end dates of coverage; the actual coverage in the contract including limits, premiums and deductibles, and where and how to file a claim. 

18>Deductible--->The amount of money paid by the insured in a claim before the insurance company kicks in. The insurance company will deduct this amount from the claim payment. This Knowledge Center article covers deductibles extensively. Deductibles and premiums are inextricably linked: higher deductible = lower premium, and vice versa.

19>Liability Coverage--->Liability insurance or coverage protects the insured against claims from injuries and damage to other people and/or property.

20>Peril--->A specific cause of loss that puts an insured item, property or person at risk of injury, loss or damage. An example could be fire, windstorm, flood or theft.

21>Premium--->Amount paid to insurance companies in return for taking on a portion of the risk. The amount depends on different factors, including the coverage limits and deductibles one chooses.

22>Risk--->The possibility of losses, some of which is transferred from insured to insurer for a specific period according to a policy agreement. Insurance companies set prices based on their evaluation of risk.

23>SR-22/ FR-44--->A Certificate of Financial Responsibility (CFR) is required by some states for high-risk drivers. The difference between an SR-22 and an FR-44 is that the second requires the purchase of additional liability insurance; currently in force in Florida and Virginia.


24>Travel Insurance--->Travelling around the world is a thrilling experience. However, no matter how precisely we plan our trip, things tend to go haywire. Presenting Reliance Travel Insurance, that offers coverage against lost passport, lost checked-in baggage, trip delays & more.

25>Health Insurance--->Health Insurance is a medical coverage that helps you meet your medical expenses by offering financial assistance. 

26>Property Insurance--->Business property insurance will cover the cost to repair or rebuild your company’s physical structures if you sustain damage from fire, hail, theft, wind, smoke or vandalism. This insurance generally covers buildings, not other types of “property” such as vehicles in a commercial fleet. Vehicles are covered under a commercial vehicle policy.

27>Shop Insurance--->A shop insurance is a type of insurance policy designed to cover for a shop’s property and its contents within. At Digit, our shop insurance covers for fire and natural calamities such as floods and earthquakes through our Standard Fire & Special Perils policy.

28>Group Health Insurance--->With group health insurance, the employer selects the plan (or plans) to offer to employees. The premium cost is usually split between the employer and employee, and there is a minimum percentage rate the employer must contribute to the premiums.

29>Arogya Sanjeevani Policy--->Arogya Sanjeevani Policy, ICICI Lombard pays for your medical bills when you are hospitalised. It is well suited for securing your basic healthcare needs. It also lets you cover your family on floater basis. With us, you get to make the most of our 24x7 customer support for settling your cashless claims.

30>Commercial Vehicle Insurance--->Commercial insurance renewal is the length of time your insurance policy is in effect without the insurance company adjusting your rate. But, once the initial policy period is over, your insurance rate should stay the same through each policy renewal unless you make a change. Now, here is when you get a window for thinking.


32>Workers’ compensation--->insurance provides injured employees with replacement income and pays for medical expenses if they are injured on the job. In exchange for these benefits, employees give up the right to sue the employer over their work-related injury, regardless of who was at fault.

33>Professional liability--->Sometimes referred to as errors and omissions (E&O) insurance, professional liability insurance is a must for business owners who work directly with customers offering services or advice. Professional liability protects your business from claims of negligence, failure to perform or improperly providing services.

34>General liability--->General liability insurance helps protect your company if someone experiences bodily injury, property damage or other types of injury as a result of your business operations.Common examples include if someone slips and falls in your store or if you damage a customer’s property while working on their premises. In both cases, repairs and medical bills can be costly.

35>Business owner’s insurance--->A business owner’s policy, or BOP, combines the most common types of property and liability insurance a business owner needs into one convenient, comprehensive package at a competitive rate.

36>Data breach/cyber breach liability--->Data or cyber breach liability insurance protects your business in the event that you are sued, penalized or lose business due to a cyber attack or hack. Personally identifiable customer information includes credit card numbers, Social Security numbers, addresses, medical details, phone numbers and personal information such as birthdays and the names of family members.


37>Key person life insurance--->Does your business success depend on one, or a few, key employees? If the answer is yes, you need a key person life insurance policy to protect your company from the loss of those individuals.For example, you’ve got a chemist working on a game-changing compound that will make your company $5 million in the first year on the market. But that chemical compound is still under development.

38>Hunt for hazards--->To determine your unique safety risks, observe your workplace environment and analyze the kind of work your employees do. Let’s say you’re a commercial baker. What hazards and health risks might your employees encounter? Inhaling flour dust — spurring an asthma attack? Or lifting heavy trays of bread — triggering a strain?


39>Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA)--->an agency within the US Department of Labor that is responsible for administering and enforcing the Occupational Safety and Health Act (OSHA) of 1970.

40>Policyholder--->The policyholder is the one who proposes the purchase of the life insurance policy and pays the premium (see #7 Premium). The policyholder is the owner of the policy and s/he may or may not be the life assured (see # 2 Life assured).

41>Life assured--->Life assured is the insured person. Life assured is the one for whom the life insurance plan is purchased to cover the risk of untimely death. Primarily, the breadwinner of the family is the life assured.

42>Sum assured (coverage)--->Life insurance is meant to provide a life cover to the insured.
The financial loss that may arise due to the passing away of the life assured is generally chosen as a life cover when buying a life insurance plan. In technical terms, ‘Sum Assured’ is the term used for an amount that the insurer agrees to pay on death of the insured person or occurrence of any other insured event.

43>Nominee--->The ‘nominee’ is the person (legal heir) nominated by the policyholder to whom the sum assured and other benefits will be paid by the life insurance company in case of an unfortunate eventuality. The nominee could be the wife, child, parents, etc. of the policyholder. The nominee needs to claim life insurance, if the life assured dies during the policy tenure (see #5 Policy tenure).

44>Policy tenure--->The ‘policy tenure’ is the duration for which the policy provides life insurance coverage. The policy tenure can be any period ranging from 1 year to 100 years or whole life, depending on the types of life insurance plan and its terms and conditions. 

45>Maturity age--->Maturity age is the age of the life assured at which the policy ends or terminates. This is similar to policy tenure, but a different way to say how long the plan will be in force. 

46>Premium--->The premium is the amount you pay to keep the life insurance plan active and enjoy continued coverage. If you are unable to pay the premium before the payment due date and even during the grace period (#13 Grace period), the policy terminates.


47>Premium payment term/mode/ frequency--->You can pay the life insurance premium as per your convenience.

48>Regular Premium Payment--->You can pay premium regularly throughout the policy term either – monthly, quarterly, half-yearly or yearly. 

49>Limited Premium Payment--->You can choose to pay the premiums for a limited amount of time. In this option, you do not pay till the end of the policy term, but for a certain pre-fixed number of years. For example, 10 years, 15 years, 20 years, and so on.

50>Single Premium Payment--->You can also choose to pay the premium for the entire duration of the plan as a lumpsum in one single go.

51>Riders--->Riders are an additional paid-up feature to widen up the scope of the base life insurance policy. Riders are bought at the time of purchase or on policy anniversary. There are different types of riders that can be bought along with the base plan. However, number and type of riders will differ from insurer to insurer.

52>Death Benefit--->You will come across ‘Death Benefit’ quite frequently whenever you are either planning to buy a life insurance plan or comparing different insurance plans online.The ‘Death Benefit’ is what life insurance company pays to the nominee in case the life assured dies during the policy tenure. 

53>Survival/Maturity Benefit--->Maturity benefit is the amount that the life insurance company pays when the life assured outlives the policy tenure. Survival benefit is paid when the life assured completes the pre-defined number of years under the policy.There is no survival or maturity benefit in term plans. However, in other life insurance policies you may find survival benefit or the maturity benefit paid under the plan.

54>Free-look Period--->It is applicable to all new life insurance policies purchased. Free-look period is a time frame during which one may choose to return the purchased policy.If you are not comfortable with the terms and conditions, you can return the policy within the Free-look period. 

55>Grace Period--->If you couldn’t pay the renewal premium for your policy on time, life insurance company gives you an extension in the number of days after the premium payment due date. A ‘Grace Period’ can be period of 15 days in case of monthly premium payment mode, and 30 days in case of annual premium payment mode.
If the policyholder does not pay the premiums even before the end of grace period, the policy gets lapsed.

56>Surrender Value--->If the policyholder decides to discontinue the plan before the maturity age, the life insurance company pays an amount to the policyholder, this is called Surrender Value.But you must clearly read the terms and conditions whether a plan offers any surrender value or not. And if there is a surrender value, how much it will be. Not all life insurance plans have surrender value.

57>Paid-up Value--->In case the policyholder discontinues to pay the premium after a specified period of time, Insurance companies will offer the policyholder an option to convert his policy into a reduced paid-up policy. Under this option the sum insured is reduced in proportion to the number of premiums paid. If other benefits related to the sum insured are payable, these benefits will now be related to the reduced sum insured, which is the paid-up value.

58>Revival Period--->If the policyholder does not pay the premium even during the grace period, the policy lapses.
However, if the policyholder still wants to continue, the insurance company provides an option of re-activating the lapsed policy. This must be done within a specific period of time after the grace period ends. This specified period is known as a revival period. To reinstate the lapsed policy, the life insurance company will put forward the request to the team of Underwriters (see #17 Underwriters) for approval.

59>Underwriters--->Underwriters evaluate the risk involved in insurance. The process of risk evaluation starts before the issuance of insurance policy, and ends with settlement of the claim (see #20 Claim Process).
Only with the approval of Underwriters, policy is issued to the policyholder. And only after clearance from the Underwriter, the company pays the claim benefit to the nominee.

60>Tax benefits--->All the premiums paid towards the life insurance plan are eligible for deductions under Section 80 (C) of Income Tax Act, 1961. The maximum amount that one can claim as deductible is Rs.1.5 lakh.

The benefits paid to the policyholder/nominee are tax-free under Section 10 (10D) of Income Tax Act, 1961.

61>Exclusions-->Before you buy any life insurance, read ‘Exclusions’ carefully. These are things that are not covered under a life insurance policy, and against which if claimed, insurance company wouldn’t pay any benefit.
For instance, Suicide, is an exclusion in any life insurance plan.

62>Claim Process--->In case, the life assured passes away during the policy tenure, the nominee needs to lodge a claim to receive the death benefit as mentioned in the policy.
Read: How to File a Death Claim Under a Life Insurance Policy?

63>Deductible--->The Deductible is the amount that you must pay out of your own pocket before the insurance company will begin paying towards any covered expenses. The deductible affects how much money you will pay to the doctor or hospital, and is typically paid at the time of treatment.
Depending on the plan, the deductible may be paid once per calendar year or once per new condition:

64>Once per Year--->Once-per-calendar-year deductibles are paid once for the entire year and don’t need to be paid again until you renew for an additional year.

65>Once per Condition--->Once-per-condition deductibles are paid each time you visit the doctor, unless it’s a follow-up visit for the same condition.

66>Co-Pay--->Like a deductible, this is the amount of money you must pay out of pocked before the insurance company begins to pay for your eligible expenses. Typically this is required instead of a deductible or coinsurance, and requires you to pay a set fee for a specific visit.

67>Coinsurance--->Coinsurance is a percentage of what the insurance will pay to cover your health care cost after any deductibles or copays have been met.

68>Pre-existing Conditions--->Pre-existing conditions include any injury or illness that you may have prior to getting the insurance plan. The definition can vary by plan so it’s important to check with your plan to see the exact definition.

69>Repatriation of Remains--->On most insurance plans, repatriation of remains covers the cost of returning the insured’s body back to their home country in case of death.

70>Emergency Medical Evacuation--->Emergency Medical Evacuation provides medically necessary transportation to the nearest qualified medical facility, not necessarily your home country.

71>Beneficiary--->This is the person who would receive any insurance benefits in case the policy holder was to pass away while on the insurance plan.

72>Insurance--->Insurance is a contract in which an insurance company promises to compensate an insured.

73>Agent---> A person or a group of people selling insurance on behalf of an insurance company.

74>Insurer---> Is the company which accepts risks after receiving premiums and pays claims.

75>Insured- The term ‘insured’ refers to the person who has taken insurance against various risks and who pays a premium for the insurance.

76>Broker -An independent professional person who is registered under the Insurance Act who advises customers on insurance. The broker operates as your agent, and not that of any insurance company. In Kenya, most Brokers are members of the Association of Insurance Brokers of Kenya (AIBK).

77>Underwriter-The person who decides how much to charge and who manages the account that bears the cost of claims for motor or household insurance, or the person who decides

78>Premium-The amount you pay to an insurance company, sometimes in regular installments or as per your agreement with the insurer for your insurance policy.

79>Commission-This is the money that is paid to agents or brokers who sell an insurance product on behalf of an insurance company. Commissions are paid by insurers

80>Excess-This is the amount the insured is expected to make when making acclaim. This amount is usually specified in the policy. It discourages the insured from making very small claims and instead meeting this cost themselves.

81>Liability - Your responsibilities for the adverse effects of your actions, or lack of actions on others.

82>Third Party-Any other person who may be affected by your actions – for example, in a car accident, it would relate to damage to their car. In this context, it is well to recognize that the first party in an insurance policy is you, and the second is your insurance company and the third is the other person or vehicle in the accident.

83>Proposal- This is the application form which you have to fill in when you apply for insurance cover.

84>Sum insured-It relates to the value of goods at risk and this is the basis upon which the premium is calculated.
ASSIGNMENT  : Transfer of a person's interest in an insurance policy to another person in the legal sense.

85>ASSOCIATION CAPTIVE--->An insurance company whose main purpose is to insure the members of an organization that are either sponsors or owners of the captive.

86>ASSOCIATION GROUP--->Insurance provided to a group consisting of members of an association or health insuranceissued to those members on a franchise basis.

87>ASSUMED LIABILITY--->Also known as Contractual Liability, it refers to the liability of an entity based on the contractual terms.

88>ASSUMPTION OF RISK DOCTRINE--->A legal principle under which the responsibility for loss is passed onto the injured party because he/she had complete knowledge and understanding of the risks involved in the said situation.

89>ASSUMPTIONS--->Risk accepted by a Reinsurer.

90>ASSURED--->Entity indemnified against loss through insurance.
ANY ONE ACCIDENT (AOA) : One or more claims related to the same error or omission in a professional service.

91>ANY ONE VESSEL (AOV)--->Commonly used in Marine Cargo Insurance, refers to the insurer's maximum commitment under the policy for all cargo in respect of any one vessel.

92>ANY ONE YEAR (AOY)--->The concept of AOA and AOY go hand in hand wherein the Insured can select a pre-determined indemnity limit in the ratio of 1:1, 1:2, 1:3, 1:4 of AOA:AOY and the premium is determined based on the AOY limit calculated.

93>ABSOLUTE LIABILITY--->A legal responsibility towards damages that are final and binding and the cause of which need not be proven.

94>ABSOLUTE OWNERSHIP--->An explicit right of ownership and possession which is free from any restrictions or limitations, given to the Insured.

95>ACCEPTANCE--->An event where an insurer accepts an application and issues a policy that will safeguard the applicant from risks stated in the 

96>ACCESS TO THE RECORDS CLAUSE--->The ability of the Reinsurer to access/inspect the books of accounts and official records of the Reinsured Company at its own expense.

97>ACCESSORY--->An addition to a motor vehicle that does not change its performance or structure.

98>ACCIDENT AND HEALTH INSURANCE--->A policy that insures the policyholder and his/her dependent against injury, illness or death from an accident. Policy coverage payment reimbursement of the following expenses - visit to the doctor, medical surgeries, medicines and so on.

99>ACCIDENT AND SICKNESS INSURANCE--->A policy that insures against personal accident and sickness, that include a compensation for the period of disablement and reimbursement of medical expenses only for the sickness mentioned in the policy.

100>ACCUMULATION PERIOD--->The duration for which premium payments are made by the annuitant under life insurance.

101>ACCUMULATION UNITS--->Refer to units accumulated in a trust by reinvestment of funds or dividends into more units instead of opting for a payout.














 
 